So now that I've talked about
the ManagedBlocker interface
which, as you can see, is
kind of ridiculously simple,
and how it's used in
the implementation
of the ManagedBlock method
in the Fork-Join Pool,
let's go ahead and talk about
how to apply it in practice.
And I'll show you a couple
of different examples
from a couple of
different perspectives.
So this particular
discussion will
show how to apply
the ManagedBlocker
interface on blocking
synchronizers and blocking
cues.
So if you take a look at
the Java documentation
for ManagedBlocker, you will
see that the following examples
except that the examples
don't go into as much
detail as I'm about
to go through.
So take a look at those
examples and then you
can watch the video and learn
exactly what they're doing.
So as you can see, the
first example we see here
is called the ManagedLocker.
And the ManagedLocker
implements ManagedBlocker
and it's intended to be used to
handle a blocking synchronizer.
In this particular
case, the type
of blocking synchronizer
we're concerned with
will be a ReentrantLock
which is an example of a mute
text or a mutual exclusion
mechanism where you can attempt
to acquire the lock.
And if the lock is free, you get
it right away and you lock it.
If the lock is
not free, then you
have to wait until whoever
owns the lock releases it.
We talked extensively
about ReentrantLock
in my concurrent object-oriented
programming course,
so that's a good place to go to
learn more about how it works.
As you can see here, the
constructor of ManagedLocker
goes ahead and stores the
lock in the mLock field.
So it goes out and
stashes that away
because it's going to be used
in other methods in the class.
One of the methods, which
of course is implemented
by the corresponding hook method
in the ManagedBlocker interface
is the isReleasable method.
And you can see,
what this does is
it checks this boolean
flag called HasLock
and if HasLock is
true, then we return.
Otherwise, we go
ahead and attempt
to acquire the lock
using the tryLock method.
And the tryLock method is a
so-called non-blocking method.
And what that does
is it checks to see
if the lock is available.
If so, it acquires it
and we get back true.
But if it's not currently
available, we don't block.
We just return false.
So we're going to take a shot at
trying to see if we can do this
without blocking.
And if we succeed,
no need to block.
No need to spawn extra threads.
We're done.
But if we don't succeed, then
the underlying ManagedBlock
method in the Fork-Join
Pool will have
to call the BlockedHook method.
And as you can see, the
BlockedHook method, once again,
check to see if
we've got the lock.
And if not, then we go
ahead and call mLock.lock.
And that actually performs
a blocking lock operation.
So that will end up
blocking, and of course,
if it blocks for an
extended period of time,
that will cause
the Fork-Join Pool
to compensate by
creating another thread
to make up for the fact
that this one is locked.
Let's take a different look at
a different blocking mechanism
and see how that could
be implemented using
the ManagedBlocker interface.
So this approach is
called QueueTaker.
And it also implements
ManagedBlocker.
And as you can see, the
constructor queue taker
is past the blocking queue,
and we go ahead and initialize
the mQueue field with whatever
the queue that's passed to it
is.
And the BlockingQueue,
as you may also
recall if you've seen my
concurrent object-oriented
programming lectures, is
essentially a bounded buffer
that's thread safe.
And the way it works
would be if someone
tries to remove an item
from a bounded queue
and the queue is empty,
then that will block
until the queue is not empty.
And if someone tries to insert
an item into a blocking queue
and the queue is full, then
that will block into the queue
as not full.
Good examples of
BlockingQueue implementations
that you may be
familiar with is,
or would be the
ArrayBlockingQueue
and the LinkedBlockingQueue.
using an array list,
and LinkBlockingQueue
using a linked list.
So in either case, we're
going to stash aside
the BlockingQueue
into a local field.
Here's the isReleasable method.
We see whether or not
we've got an item already.
If we have an item, we're done.
Otherwise if we don't have
an item, then we go ahead
and we pull the queue.
And pull is a
non-blocking operation.
So if there is an item
fresh and ready to go,
then pull will remove it
and return it and store it
in an item.
If there is no item in the queue
currently, pull will not block.
It will just return null.
So we're going to
give a shot at trying
to get the non-blocking
item off the queue.
But if it fails,
then again, we have
to have the blocking called.
So in this case,
what will happen
is if we still have a
null item for m item, then
we call the take
method on the queue.
And take will block until an
item is put onto the queue.
So even if the queue
is empty, it'll
just wait and block
the calling thread
until an item is available.
And as you can see, when the
item finally becomes available,
we return the item and
store it in the mItem field.
Now, we need to find some way
of getting access to that item
when all is said and done, and
so we define a little helper
method called getItem, which
is an accessor method that
returns mItem.
And of course you
would call getItem
after ManageBlock completes
in order to get the result.